---
title: 040.fm
date: "2019-03-28T12:40:59+00:00"
status: publish
permalink: 040-fm
author: Ehsan
id: 314
agency: Freelance
category:
  - Design
  - Lab
  - Sysadmin
tag:
  - CSS
  - HTML
  - Javascript
  - PHP
  - SHOUTcast
  - "Youtube API"
case_link_url: ""
client: 040.fm
tagline: "We run 040"
background_image: "040-bg.png"
logo: "040-logo.jpg"
images:
  - 040-4.jpg
  - 040-3.png
  - 040-1.jpg
  - 040-2.jpg
  - 040-5.jpg
  - 040-6.jpg

port_date:
  - "2009"
---

<h2>Background:</h2>
040.fm is a music and culture group formed in 2009 with a mission to advocate for the rights of musicians and artists. They aimed to bring the music and culture of the streets directly to the streets, fostering a vibrant and inclusive community.

<h2>Objective:</h2>
In March 2019, Ehsan, a freelance designer and developer, was tasked with redesigning the 040.fm website to enhance its user experience, accessibility, and functionality. The primary focus was to revamp the website using CSS, HTML, Javascript, PHP, SHOUTcast, and the YouTube API, optimizing it to resonate with the street culture and effectively convey the group's mission.

<h2>Approach:</h2>

    <ul>

    <li>
    <h3> Research and Analysis: </h3>
    Ehsan initiated the project by conducting thorough research on street culture, the target audience, and the organization's mission and values. This research helped in understanding the specific needs and preferences of the community.
    </li>
    <li>
    <h3>Design and Branding: </h3>
    Ehsan collaborated with the client to establish a design direction that reflected the essence of street culture. This involved creating a visually appealing logo, selecting suitable background images (like '040-bg.png') and other visuals ('040-4.jpg', '040-3.png', etc.) that embodied the spirit of the 040.fm movement.

    </li>
    <li>

    <h3>Technical Implementation: </h3>
    Leveraging CSS, HTML, Javascript, PHP, SHOUTcast, and the YouTube API, Ehsan worked on redesigning the website to improve its functionality and user interactivity. The technical implementation aimed to optimize the site for music streaming (SHOUTcast) and seamless integration of YouTube content.

    </li>
    <li>

    <h3>User Experience Optimization: </h3>
    Ehsan emphasized creating an intuitive and engaging user interface to enhance the overall user experience. This included improving navigation, ensuring mobile responsiveness, and optimizing load times for an efficient and satisfying browsing experience.

    </li>
    <li>
    <h3>Testing and Iteration: </h3>
    Rigorous testing was carried out to identify any bugs, errors, or inconsistencies in the website's design and functionality. Feedback from users and the client was incorporated to make necessary refinements and ensure the website met its objectives effectively.

    </li>

    </ul>

<h2>Outcome:</h2>
The redesigned 040.fm website successfully captured the essence of street culture and effectively communicated the organization's mission to its target audience. The website provided a platform for music enthusiasts to engage with the community and access relevant content seamlessly, ultimately contributing to the group's advocacy for music and culture rights.
